---
title: "EdgeRouter-X Config"
date: 2025-06-08
layout: default
severity: medium
category: web-security
---
# EdgeRouter-X Configuration
---

## Chapter 1: Overview
### Intro

Well here we are, really doing it. AI tells me that getting an edge router means I'm the real deal. But how do we
run this thing? Well it has EdgeOS built right in which is slick. If you're anything like me, once I realized I could 
SSH right into my router? Win. This guide is apparently for anything version 1.9 or above of the EdgeOS Configuration
interface and all EdgePoint and EdgeRouter models. This guide will be collectively referring to an EdgeRouter-X.
This is for educational purposes only.
Additional information is at:


[EdgeOS: User Guide](https://dl.ubnt.com/guides/edgemax/EdgeOS_UG.pdf)


[Firmware](http://documentation.ubnt.com/edgemax)

---

### Config
You can conveniently manage the router through your browser (192.168.1.1) with the defaults

ubnt/ubnt

If you are still using this please add a user and change the password immediately. You should ***never*** use 
default credentials. If you need to configure advanced features or prefer command line, theres a CLI button that
will pop up a nice shell for you where you can use the config tree and regular EdgeOS commands.

---

### Deployment Scenarios

According to the user manual I possess it says this device (The EdgeRouter-X) is deployable in: 

- Small Office / Home Office (SOHO) Deployment
- Service Provider Deployment
- Corporate Deployment

---

### SOHO Deployment

In the user manual they want you to click on the wizards tab and follow the on screen instructions, but that's not us
baby, I believe in you, that's why you're here.

---

## Chapter 2: Using EdgeOS
I would like to re-iterate that most of this you can find at, and is taken directly from the [user guide](https://dl.ubnt.com/guides/edgemax/EdgeOS_UG.pdf)

EdgeOS is an operating system that manages your router. It offers a browser-based interface for easy congfiguration
as well as a shell environment for all your CLI, and advanced configuration needs. To access the interface:

1. Connect an Ethernet cable from the Ethernet port of your computer to the port labeled eth0 on the router.

2. Configure the Ethernet adapter on your computer with a static IP address on 192.168.1.x subnet ( I would go with
192.168.1.101) * I would like to note you can connect a serial cable to the console port of the EdgeRouter. *

3. Launch your web browser. Type https://192.168.1.1 in the address field and go

4. The login screen will appear. Enter 
